---
url: /posts/nant-and-net-3-5
title: NAnt and .NET 3.5
date: 2008-02-18 16:52:46 -06:00
layout: post
---

I recently started a personal .NET 3.5 project (finally learning the ASP.NET MVC architecture) and noticed when I tried to migrate an old NAnt build file over and run the automated build it died.  The main reason was because when I call out to msbuild to build my solution it uses the nant.exe.config file to call the msbuild.exe file in the current designated framework path (i.e., C:WINDOWSMicrosoft.NETFrameworkv2.0.50727msbuild.exe).  Well, that won't help because .NET 3.5 solutions can't be compiled by the .NET 2.0 msbuild.exe.

[NAnt 0.86 Beta1](http://nant.sourceforge.net/) supports .NET 3.5.  So for those of you, using NAnt for your automated builds, and compiling .NET 3.5 solutions, hope this information helps.  If you're concerned that it's a beta, then read the following from their site:

> _"This release focuses on extending our already strong support for multiple target frameworks, bringing improved flexibility and performance."_

I know you can use csc and compile the solution that way, but it doesn't read as nicely as a msbuild target call. :)

Does anyone have any other workarounds?

## Comments

**[Kevin Miller](#221 "2008-02-19 03:03:59"):** Jason, For my .Net 2.0 and 3.5 projects I usually invoke msbuild via the  task. I started doing it like this before Nant had a msbuild target and just sorta stuck to it. It gives you pretty fine control over what happens and you don't get hung up when NAnt is not up-to-date.  ...

**[Jason Meridth](#222 "2008-02-19 05:25:35"):** @Kevin Thank you sir. After reading some of the blogs on CodeBetter and going further today I realized that it wasn't as easy as having 0.86 Beta. I'll try out your idea tomorrow. Thanks.

**[Shane Kenney](#223 "2008-09-14 08:51:10"):** Thanks for the heads up. I was wondering where this was set! Cheers
